Introduction to DevOps Principles and Linux Fundamentals

This course offers a comprehensive understanding of DevOps, covering fundamental
concepts, benefits, challenges, and key tools and methodologies. Additionally, students
are introduced to the Linux operating system, exploring various distributions and
gaining proficiency in file structures, permissions, and command line operations


   
 DevOps definition
A compound of development (Dev) and operations (Ops), DevOps is the 
union of people, process, and technology to continually provide value to
 customers.
 
 The benefits of DevOps 
Teams that adopt DevOps culture, practices, and tools become 
high-performing, building better products faster for greater customer 
satisfaction. This improved collaboration and productivity is also 
integral to achieving business goals like these:
 Accelerating time to market
 Adapting to the market and competition
 Maintaining system stability and reliability
 Improving the mean time to recovery
 
DevOps and the application lifecycle

 Plan 
  In the plan phase, DevOps teams ideate, define, and describe features and 
 capabilities of the applications and systems they are building. They 
 track progress at low and high levels of granularity—from single-product
  tasks to tasks that span portfolios of multiple products. Creating 
 backlogs, tracking bugs, managing agile software development with Scrum,
  using Kanban boards, and visualizing progress with dashboards are some 
 of the ways DevOps teams plan with agility and visibility.
 
 Develop 
  The develop phase includes all aspects of coding—writing, testing, 
 reviewing, and the integration of code by team members—as well as 
 building that code into build artifacts that can be deployed into 
 various environments. DevOps teams seek to innovate rapidly without 
 sacrificing quality, stability, and productivity. To do that, they use 
 highly productive tools, automate mundane and manual steps, and iterate 
 in small increments through automated testing and continuous 
 integration.
    
 Deliver 
  Delivery is the process of deploying applications into production environments 
 in a consistent and reliable way. The deliver phase also includes 
 deploying and configuring the fully governed foundational infrastructure
  that makes up those environments.
 In the deliver phase, teams 
 define a release management process with clear manual approval stages. 
 They also set automated gates that move applications between stages 
 until they’re made available to customers. Automating these processes 
 makes them scalable, repeatable and controlled. This way, teams who 
 practice DevOps can deliver frequently with ease, confidence, and peace 
 of mind.

 Operate 
  The operate phase involves maintaining, monitoring, and troubleshooting 
 applications in production environments. In adopting DevOps practices, 
 teams work to ensure system reliability, high availability, and aim for 
 zero downtime while reinforcing security and governance. DevOps teams 
 seek to identify issues before they affect the customer experience and 
 mitigate issues quickly when they do occur. Maintaining this vigilance 
 requires rich telemetry, actionable alerting, and full visibility into 
 applications and the underlying system.
 
 DevOps culture 
 Collaboration, visibility, and alignment 
 Shifts in scope and accountability 
 Shorter release cycles 
 Continuous learning 
   
 DevOps practices 
 Continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD)  
 Version Control 
 Agile software development  
 Infrastructure as code  
 Configuration management 
 Continuous monitoring  
 
 
Dev KPI = Speed of Delivery
Ops KPI = Stability, uptime


Language Learning Models
	Write better AI prompts:
		Use Clear Instructions
		Adopt a persona
		Specify the format
		Avoid leading the answer
		Limit the scope
		